Data preparation, data cleaning,
it's janitorial work and it's not that that's bad, but it's necessary.
We have to clean the data because it's not always perfect.
What I mean by that is that sometimes you don't have validation.
So, let's just say a date isn't in a standard date format,
and you wanted to find the thing that was the oldest.
If you don't have some kind of a cleaning process,
you might miss something.
So, if you put in a date say September 1st, 1980,
but I type it out,
I spell it out September,
S-E-P, how are you going to filter that?
How are you going to equate those to the same date?
So, you have to cleanse it.
That process of cleansing basically create
structure within the dataset so that there's a continuity,
there is what we call normalization,
where you know everything in there follows some set of rule.
So, if a column is only going to have ones and zeros,
you better not have an A or a three in there or an empty space.
If there is, you have to understand it and either get rid of it.
Or when say cleanse,
we want to either get rid of it or turn it into
a real value that you can understand and measure.
So, data cleansing, it's integral part at the very beginning.
If you don't cleanse your data,
your output and your analysis can be all wrong.